About
-----
This How-To documents how to update admin access to the website
on the Stanford webserver -- adding and removing webmasters --
along with related information.

A description of this process, along with other actions, is (as
of January 2019) available at:

     https://uit.stanford.edu/service/afs/info/groupperms

Adding a webmaster
------------------
1.  SSH onto rice.

        > ssh [your-sunet-id]@rice.stanford.edu

2.  Add the new webmaster's SUNet ID to the Dancebreak PTS Group.

        > pts adduser -user [new-webmaster-sunet-id] -group dancebreak-admins

3.  Verify the addition succeeded.

        > pts mem dancebreak-admins

    You should see the new ID, along with existing ones in the
    group -- e.g. you should see something like

        > pts mem dancebreak-admins
        Members of dancebreak-admins (id: -99999) are:
         bandanabob
         [new-webmaster-sunet-id]
         richard
         tony33

4.  Done!

Removing a webmaster
--------------------
1.  SSH onto rice.

        > ssh [your-sunet-id]@rice.stanford.edu

2.  Remove the webmaster's SUNet ID from the Dancebreak PTS Group.

        > pts removeuser -user [old-webmaster-sunet-id] -group dancebreak-admins

    NEVER REMOVE YOUR OWN SUNet ID, OR ELSE YOU WILL NOT BE ABLE
    TO PERFORM ANY FURTHER UPDATES!

3.  Verify the removal succeeded.

        > pts mem dancebreak-admins

    You should NOT see the old ID; just the remaining ones in the
    group -- e.g. you should see something like

        > pts mem dancebreak-admins
        Members of dancebreak-admins (id: -99999) are:
          bandanabob
          richard
          tony33

4.  Done!

Explanations and related directory operations
---------------------------------------------
A.  PTS Groups (and ACLs).

    Access to directories in the file system used on Stanford's
    machines such as rice -- in particular, our website
    directories -- are controlled via "Access Control Lists," or
    ACLs.  Whenever new Dancebreak officers are elected, they
    must be given access to every website directory in order to
    maintain the website going forward.  (The outgoing officers
    should be removed as well.)  This is a bit of a hassle.  In
    addition, the number of entries (e.g. SUNet IDs) in an ACL is
    usually limited to a relatively small number -- 20 in the
    case of Stanford's file systems.  (That number is easily
    exceeded as there are various Stanford admins that must have
    access to our website, in addition to our own webmasters.)

    A separate mechanism exists, however, that both eliminates
    the hassle and allows for an unlimited number of entries:
    Protection Server (or PTS) Groups -- which Stanford IT
    strongly recommends using.  Individual webmaster SUNet IDs go
    here, rather than into ACLs, so any number can be added.
    Plus, the "dancebreak-admins" PTS Group has access to all our
    website directories, so when someone is added to our Group,
    they automatically are granted access to all those
    directories (similarly for when their access is removed) --
    hassle eliminated!

    The "pts" command is how operations are performed.  You can
    also verify that our PTS Group has access to any of the
    website directories (see B, below).

    Note that PTS Groups only addresses access groups, and not
    any specific directories -- which is why none of the "pts"
    operations in the sections above referenced any directories.
    PTS Groups are entries in ACLs, and ACLs are what control
    authorizations for a given directory.

B.  Checking PTS Group (and ACL) access.

    1.  SSH onto rice.

            > ssh [your-sunet-id]@rice.stanford.edu

    2.  Go to the website directory.

            > cd /afs/ir.stanford.edu/group/dancebreak/WWW

    3.  Check who is in the ACL for the directory:

            > fs la

        You should see a list of groups, along with their access
        rights -- e.g. you should see something like

            > fs la
            Access list for . is
            Normal rights:
              group-dept-rl-access rl
              iso_afs_assess rl
              dancebreak-admins rlidwka
              system:dept-admin rlidwka
              system:www-servers l
              system:administrators rlidwka

        The second string in our "dancebreak-admins" PTS Group
        shows that we have full rights ("rlidwka").  See C,
        below, for what these letters mean.

        NOTE:  each directory can have its own, possibly
        different, set of ACLs.  However, we do not have
        different ACLs for our website directories.

    4.  Check who is in our admin group:

            > pts mem dancebreak-admins

        You should just see SUNet IDs -- something like

            > pts mem dancebreak-admins
            Members of dancebreak-admins (id: -99999) are:
              bandanabob
              richard
              tony33

C.  Access rights ("rlidwka").

    The access rights for a given ACL entry is given by the
    second string of the entry, which consists of one or more of
    the letters "r," "l," "i," "d," "w," "k," and "a."  The most
    important one for us is "a."  They mean:

         r : READ the content and query the status of any file in
             the directory
         l : LOOKUP files and subdirectories of the directory;
             examine the directory's ACLs
         i : INSERT new files and directories into the directory
         d : DELETE existing files and (empty) subdirectories
             from the directory
         w : WRITE to any existing file in the directory
         k : LOCK a file in the directory (to prevent more than 1
             person from simultaneously writing to it)
         a : ADMINISTER the directory (change its ACL)

    More information (as of January 2019) can be found here:

         https://web.stanford.edu/~consult/afsinfo/basic.shtml

Last updated
------------
Thu Jan 24 02:55:51 PST 2019
